Okay, in this section we're
going to talk about arrays.
So if we think about primitive variables,
they can all hold a single value.
Arrays can hold multiple values, but
they must all be of the same type.
So here's an example of
a primitive variable.
We have int age = 21;,
it holds one value, right?
An array would be something
that holds multiple values.
So if you think of something
like a lottery ticket,
a lottery ticket has multiple
numbers associated with it, right?
And therefore, this variable would need
to be able to hold all of those values.
So let's look at this definition and
I'll explain each part of this.
So it starts with the data
type of the array.
What is the data type
that this array can hold?
Again, all of the values within this
have to be of the same data type.
So an array can hold
like any sort of data.
But within a single array, all of the data
must be of the same type, all right?
The next part of that is
a set of square brackets.
And those brackets indicate
that this is an array.
So we've seen this with the string args
and main, those square brackets there.
Basically saying that main accepts
an array of strings, right?
So this is the same thing.
Those brackets can appear
after the data type or
it can appear after the name
of the variable itself.
It doesn't matter, all right?
LottoTicket is the name of this array.
So after you have the data
type in the brackets,
then you define the name of the array.
And then this equal sign is
we are going to essentially
specify that this will be a new array.
And inside of the bracket
with the data type, a number.
And that number represents how
many elements this array can hold.
If we were to look inside of an array,
this is what that would look like.
So this int LottoTicket,
notice this time I put the brackets after
the name to let you see that you can
put it either after the data type or
after the name, either one,
it really does not matter.
And then, in the memory location
it would look something like this.
So we would have like six different
slots for each of the values.
And then,
each of those slots has an address.
Which is an index, and so
the very first slot, the index would be 0.
These indices start at 0, 0 1,
2, 3, 4, and 5, all right?
So another way that you can declare an
array is if you know the values upfront.
Sometimes you don't use things like
a loop or something to get the values.
But if you already know
the values upfront,
you can go ahead and
initialize that array with the values.
So notice here inside of a set of
curly braces after the equal sign.
I no longer have new,
I no longer have the data type,
I just go ahead and do a comma, delimited
list with the values of the array, and
then you see how they are stored.
So each one of those values gets its
own little memory location, okay?
So if I wanted to get a Lotto ticket with
the index of 2, what would be the value?
>> 14.
>> Not quite.
>> 22.
So, index of 2 would be like literally 22,
but
it would be the third element
of the ray since it starts at 0.
The length of the array, so
we said that this was 6, or
we didn't even say how many
elements this one was.
In this declaration,
we just added the values.
You cannot change the length
once it is defined.
So I would not be able to later say, hey,
let's add a seventh
element to Lotto ticket.